#summary What makes a Mine!, a Mine!?

= Introduction =

A first stab at a list of structural and technical qualities that are necessary for a Mine to be called a Mine.

= Mine Technical Requirements =

== A Mine exists for the benefit of its owner, aka: user ==

Rule zero.

== If it's not yours, it's not a Mine ==

This is the guiding principle of a Mine; a user's Mine _must_ be under his control for creation, reading, updating, deleting (in part or entirety), duplication, and access-management.  

== The Mine root URL must be user-distinct ==

Any given Mine _must_ have a distinct "root" URL to separate it from the mines of other users; eg: where _alec_ represents an individual user...

  # GOOD 
  * http://alec.domain.com/ 
  * http://alec.domain.com/mine/ 
  * http://www.alec.com/ 
  * http://www.alec.com/mine/
  * http://www.domain.com/alec/ 
  * http://www.domain.com/alec/mine/ 
  * http://www.domain.com/mine/alec/ 

  # BAD
  * http://www.domain.com/
  * http://www.domain.com/mine/
  * http://www.domain.com/mine/?user=alec
  * _anything involving cookies for identity_

== Mine Key Separation ==

Separate mines _must_ have separate global crypto keys for separate minekey protection.

== Control of Data at Rest ==

The data it stores _should_ be under the user's physical control, or otherwise somehow kept beyond seizure.

== Control of Data in Motion ==

All user access to/from a Mine _must_ be authenticated, eg: passworded; this includes browser, uploader, scraper and backup applications.

All data shared from a Mine to mine-subscribers, ie: feeds, _must_ be authenticated by MineKey.

== Secrecy of Data at Rest ==

All data stored in a Mine _must_ be private to the owner, unless the owner elects to share items to mine-subscribers.

== Secrecy of Data in Motion ==

All user access to/from a Mine _must_ be encrypted (eg: SSL); this includes browser, uploader, scraper and backup applications.

All data shared from a Mine to mine-subscribers, ie: feeds, _should_ be encrypted (eg: SSL). We expect this requirement to become a "_must_" by 2012.
